[KEP-3104] Kuberc beta (#51351)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/kubectl/kuberc.md

weight: 70
---

{{< feature-state state="beta" for_k8s_version="1.34" >}}

A Kubernetes `kuberc` configuration file allows you to define preferences for kubectl,
such as default options and command aliases. Unlike the kubeconfig file, a `kuberc`
configuration file does **not** contain cluster details, usernames or passwords.

The default location of this configuration file is `$HOME/.kube/kuberc`.
You can instruct `kubectl` to look at a custom path for this configuration using
the `--kuberc` command line argument.

> Currently, this file allows you to define two types of user preferences:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A kuberc using the v1beta1 format allows you to define two types of user preferences:
```

1. [Aliases](#aliases) - allow you to create shorter versions of your favorite
   commands, optionally setting options and arguments.
2. [Defaults](#defaults) - allow you to configure default option values for your
   favorite commands.

> ## Aliases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## aliases
```

> Within a `kuberc` configuration, _aliases_ section allows you to define custom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within a `kuberc` configuration, the _aliases_ section allows you to define custom
```

1. [Aliases](#aliases) - allow you to create shorter versions of your favorite
   commands, optionally setting options and arguments.
2. [Defaults](#defaults) - allow you to configure default option values for your
   favorite commands.

### name
## Aliases

Alias name must not collide with the built-in commands. 
Within a `kuberc` configuration, _aliases_ section allows you to define custom
shortcuts for kubectl commands, optionally with preset command line arguments
and flags.

### command

Specify the underlying built-in command that your alias will execute. This includes support for subcommands like `create role`.

### flags

Specify default values for command line arguments (which the kuberc format terms _flags_). 
If you explicitly specify a command line argument when you run kubectl, the value you provide takes precedence over the default one defined in kuberc. 

> #### Example  {#flags-example}

Reviewer: Why delete this line?

```yaml
apiVersion: kubectl.config.k8s.io/v1alpha1
apiVersion: kubectl.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Preference
aliases:
- name: getn
  command: get
  flags:
  options:
   - name: output
     default: json
```

With this alias, running `kubectl getn pods` will default JSON output. However, if you execute `kubectl getn pods -oyaml`, the output will be in YAML format.
In this example, the following settings were used:

1. `name` - Alias name must not collide with the built-in commands.
1. `command` - Specify the underlying built-in command that your alias will execute.
   This includes support for subcommands like `create role`.
1. `options` - Specify default values for options. If you explicitly specify an option
   when you run `kubectl`, the value you provide takes precedence over the default
   one defined in `kuberc`.

### prependArgs
With this alias, running `kubectl getn pods` will default JSON output. However,
if you execute `kubectl getn pods -oyaml`, the output will be in YAML format.

Insert arbitrary arguments immediately after the kubectl command and its subcommand (if any).
Full `kuberc` schema is available [here](/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1beta1/).

> #### Example {#prependArgs-example}

Author: Too many sections will cause confusion, but I agree with your take and brought back the prependArgs and appendArgs sections.

   when you run `kubectl`, the value you provide takes precedence over the default
   one defined in `kuberc`.
1. `appendArgs` - Specify explicit arguments that will be placed at the end of the
   command. Here, this will be translated to `kubectl run test-pod --namespace test-ns --image busybox -- custom-arg`.

### command
## Defaults

Specify the built-in command. This includes support for subcommands like `create role`.
Within a `kuberc` configuration, `defaults` section lets you specify default values
for command line arguments.

### flags

Within a `kuberc`, configuration, command line arguments are termed _flags_ (even if they do not represent a boolean type).
You can use `flags` to set the default value of a command line argument.

If you explicitly specify a flag on your terminal, explicit value will always take precedence over
the value you defined in kuberc using `overrides`.

{{< note >}}
You cannot use `kuberc` to override the value of a command line argument to take precedence over
what the user specifies on the command line. The term `overrides`
in this context refers to specifying a default value that is different from the
compiled-in default value.
{{< /note >}}

> #### Example

Reviewer: Why delete this line?

>       default: "true"

Reviewer 2: @soltysh is a multi one type command better here?

```yaml
apiVersion: kubectl.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Preference
aliases:
- name: rolloutwatch
  command: rollout status
  options:
   - name: watch
     default: "true"
```

With this alias, running `kubectl rolloutwatch deployments/nginx` will be translated to `kubectl rollout status deployments/nginx --watch`. This demonstrates how aliases can work with multi-word commands like `rollout status`.

>       default: "true"

Author: I think we'll unnecessarily muddy the picture. That's why I went with the simplest possible example.

## Suggested defaults

The kubectl maintainers encourage you to adopt kuberc with the following defaults:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubectl.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Preference
defaults:
  # (1) default server-side apply
  - command: apply
    options:
      - name: server-side
        default: "true"

  # (2) default interactive deletion
  - command: delete
    options:
      - name: interactive
        default: "true"
```

In this example, the following settings are enforced:
1. Defaults to using [Server-Side Apply](/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/).
1. Defaults to interactive removal whenever invoking `kubectl delete` to prevent
   accidental removal of resources from the cluster.

## Disable kuberc

> To temporarily disable the kuberc functionality, simply export the environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To temporarily disable the kuberc functionality, set (and export) the environment
```

variable `KUBERC` with the value `off`:

```shell

> export KUBERC=off

Reviewer: Let's document that mini snag: you can't name your kuberc `off`
